.\" Man page for tailscale-swift
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
.\" Copyright (c) 2025 David E. Weekly
.TH TAILSCALE-SWIFT 1 "September 2025" "tailscale-swift" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tailscale-swift \- Development CLI for swift-tailscale-client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tailscale-swift
.I <subcommand>
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tailscale-swift
is a development-only command-line tool for testing and exploring the
swift-tailscale-client library. It provides easy access to Tailscale daemon
status and other diagnostic features.
.PP
This tool is not included in the published package and is intended for
maintainers and developers working on the TailscaleClient library.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help information.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B status
Fetch and display current Tailscale status from the local daemon.
.SH STATUS COMMAND
.B tailscale-swift status
.RI [ options ]
.PP
Display information about the current Tailscale connection, including backend
state, version, self node details, network configuration, and peer counts.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Include detailed information about all peers.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help for the status command.
.SS OUTPUT
The status command displays:
.IP \(bu 2
Backend state (running, stopped, needs login, etc.)
.IP \(bu 2
Tailscale daemon version
.IP \(bu 2
Self node information (hostname, ID, IPs, online status)
.IP \(bu 2
Network configuration (Magic DNS suffix, current tailnet)
.IP \(bu 2
Peer count and online status
.PP
With
.BR \-\-verbose ,
detailed information for each peer is shown including hostname, ID, IP addresses,
and last seen timestamp.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B tailscale-swift status
Display basic Tailscale status.
.TP
.B tailscale-swift status \-\-verbose
Display detailed status including all peer information.
.TP
.B tailscale-swift \-\-help
Show general help information.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.IP \(bu 2
Tailscale daemon must be running locally
.IP \(bu 2
macOS 13+ (uses LocalAPI discovery)
.IP \(bu 2
Swift 6.1+
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/run/tailscale/tailscaled.sock
Default Unix socket for Tailscale daemon communication on macOS.
.TP
.I ~/Library/Group Containers/*.ipn.macos/sameuserproof-*
macOS-specific LocalAPI discovery location.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tailscale (8),
.BR tailscaled (8)
.PP
Project homepage: https://github.com/dweekly/swift-tailscale-client
.SH AUTHORS
David E. Weekly <david@weekly.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 David E. Weekly
.PP
Licensed under the MIT License.
